Appendix B: Instructions for using the code

This appendix provides the step by step procedure to reproduce the results
obtained in the experiments of this coursework.  It describes the steps of
generating all data files and the procedure of preparing these data files to be
used in the following steps.  It does not, however, explains the commands and
tools needed to run the scripts.  For a quick description of the commands used
to run the scripts please see Appendix A: Code description, and for more
information on the tools used refer to Appendix E:  Resources on R and GNU
Octave.

All scripts for the experiments are designed to not overwrite data files, this
is achieved by the fact that a script in an earlier step writes files of a
different file name that the file name that a script in a further step
expects.  The files need to be renamed by hand to achieve the replication of
the full experiment, this is described below.

If the results of the experiments are to be fully replicated it is good
practice to make a backup copy of the directory containing the scripts and the
data files, as data files will need to be overwritten.  On the other hand, if
only the scripts need to be tested it is enough to run them on the files
currently present in the directories.  The data files currently present in the
third_party and results directories are the result of the best run of the
experiment.  Moreover, the .dat files in the results directory are the data
files required in the coursework text.

First stage of the data processing is the analysis of the provided data, in
the directory normalisation run either data_analysis.m or data_analysis.R to
present the statistics on the provided frames.  The data analysis read the
files of the form [0-6]t[rs][nt].ssv in the third_party directory.

Normalisation itself is performed by the norm.R script, in the normalisation
directory.  The script reads the files of the form [0-6]t[rs][nt].ssv in the
third_party directory and writes the normalised files in the same directory
changing the file extension to .norm (i.e. the files written are
[0-6]t[rs][nt].norm)

To utilise the generated .norm files in the next step of the experiments these
shall be renamed to .norm.ssv (i.e. [0-6]t[rs][nt].norm.ssv), not that this
will overwrite the current .norm.ssv files.

The 7th frame is generated from the normalised data files, in the directory
etc the script gendist.R shall be run for it.  It reads the .norm.ssv files
and prints the 7th frame normalised to the good_trn.norm.ssv file.  The 7th
frame contains the same amount of normal and abnormal cases selected at random
from the other frames.

Neural networks can be finally run over the normalised data files.  In the
directory nnetworks run the script run_nets.m to perform the experiments over
the 6 frames given in the coursework.  Run good_net.m to perform the
experiment on the extra 7th frame generated by the gendist.R script.  The
files for the experiments are the .norm.svv files in the third_party
directory, and the output is written into .out files in the results directory.
The output files from the experiments have the form of
t[rs][nt][0-7]_[0-5][05].out, where the first number represents the frame used
for the experiment and the second is the number of hidden nodes.

To perform the statistical analysis the .out files from the previous step
shall be renamed to .dat, note that this will overwrite the currently present
files in the results directory.

In the directory statistics run the gentab.R script to print to the screen and
to .out files the comparison tables.  These .out files shall be very similar
to the .tab files already present in the statistics directory.  These .out/.tab
files are the not yet formatted tables of the report and the final result of
the scripts.

