3. Conclusions

The original set of experiments has proven to be inadequate for the practical
problem of colonoscopy cancer diagnosis.  The networks constructed have high
accuracy but this is only because of the majority of normal patterns in the
datasets.  These networks are biased towards normal patterns and are
practically unable to recognise any abnormal pattern.  If these networks were
to be deployed to analyse real world data their accuracy would not decline, as
there are few people with colon cancer compared to the number of people
without colon cancer.  But this misses the purpose of the networks in helping
diagnosis of cancer, a tool that will always respond with a normal pattern is
practically the same as not having a tool at all.

On the constructed 7th frame, that contains the same amount of normal and
abnormal patterns, the networks trained produced better results.  Although the
results are not satisfactory because of a high error and low accuracy of the
networks, the results on the 7th frame are a step forward towards finding a
reliable way of classifying colon cancer cases based on video frames.  A
suggested approach to improve the 7th frame dataset to train better networks
would be to perform PCA (Principal Component Analysis).  PCA does a
dimensionality reduction of the data (Pearson, 1901 cited in Negnevitsky,
2011) and will remove the less important features of the data in favor of the
most important ones.  These less important data features might cause more
noise than being helpful in the classification and removing them might help
the accuracy of the networks trained on the data.  Of course, the networks
architecture would need to change to receive input from data with reduced
dimensionality.

